The Joe Rogan experience.
What is it like to have a movie about one of the worst experiences.
Of your life? Yes. Yes. Thank you for asking it like that. Yeah,
no one ever has. It was an it's an honor to do that, to,
to be a part of that. And, um, it's funny because like, Hey,
they made a movie and the books and it was great. And I was like, man,
it's about me getting my whipped as a fighter and a warrior.
Those are usually the stories you don't want out. Right?
So I'm in the lost column. I carry a lot of weight, 19 promises.
I never forget it. So I walk around, I always remind myself,
I can run into somebody who knows or loved one of them or one of their family
members. So always carry myself a certain way. I have to,
that was the deal I made to get me off the mountain.
People asked me who my heroes are,
everybody who had to come fetch me outta hell. I was in there pretty deep.
And um, the way that lined out, it's a great story. If you wanna hear,
I mean the whole process, I would love to hear it.
It's funny on the way up here, I was like, now how's this interview gonna go?
And I was watching dope, uh, Joe dirt last night. I was like, look,
do it like that. You wanna start from beginning <laugh> bro.
I'll tell you some stuff you can't believe. I'm glad you.
Said let's start it off with whiskey. Yeah. As soon as you said that, I'm like,
this is gonna go.
Great. It is. Yeah. I only drink whiskey with my friends and you know,
the reason we say that is because the things that come out when you drink
whiskey. Yeah. So I've been looking forward to this.
We've been friends for a while. I thought we should have a good time with it.
A hundred.
Yeah. You know, I, I watched a movie again last night.
I watched it yesterday just to prepare myself.
And uh, I haven't seen it. I never watched it all the way through.
I know the director's cut. You know what I'm talking about? Yeah, no. Yeah.
So it was, um, I can imagine it was something to back it,
up to the book and how that all happened. Are you back it up to the military?
Wherever you wanna start, we can go all different directions with it.
But I was in the, I was in the hospital. So when I got back,
I was in the hospital for a while. And then they,
I went back into the teams and started doing another workup for deployment.
And then in between that, I was getting called to the,
to the boss's house. I've always been watched over on high ground.
That was a blessing
because so many of our guys died and we had a fallen angel.
When we have a fallen angel, y'all always hear about it.
Like normally if seals die or something,
it's on the bottom of the ticker or only the family members here. But we had a,
a fallen angel, which means we have an aircraft going down. And, um,
I didn't know about it actually, when I, when, when the mission started,
because everyone who knew about our operation was on the helicopter.
That's why I was out there for so long. And, um,
I remember I was in,
I just got outta the hospital and I was doing physical therapy at the team and
they called me up and they said, Hey,
we're gonna de we're gonna declassify part of this operation.
And we're gonna put it out into a book. And I was like, okay,
I didn't know what that meant. Well,
then they pulled me back up to the, to the, to the head sheds where the,
we had this big meeting and they brought, they assigned me the, the, I mean,
I was privileged enough to have the best lawyers, the best writers.
Like I interviewed with everybody until I found a fit.
Like I got to travel around, like when Patrick and I met,
he came out to the house. My mother fell in love with him. So that's how he,
we knew he was gonna, and I had to live with him.
So what I would actually wake up on Sunday or Monday morning and go into work,
do a workup, fixing to deploy. And then on Fridays, I'd have to fly to Cape Cod.
And I would sit with Patrick and tell him the story.
And then Sunday night I'd fly back.
Patrick is the guy you wrote the Patrick Robinson? Yeah.
He's the guy you wrote the, he was, yeah. Cause my name wasn't in the book.
It wasn't supposed to be anything like that. I was still operational.
And then I deployed back to Iraq in oh six and oh seven. I ripped Joco out.
I know you met him. Love.
Joco great guy.
And he loves you, man. He was, he was my boss. One of my bosses. He.
Got so excited. When he, when he heard you were coming on, he texted me, we.
Went back and forth. He's something I called him. He he's just, what, what you,
you see is what you get.
He's you notice his face looks like it could perfectly fit in a Spartan helmet.
<laugh> yes. You know what I'm talking about? Oh yeah. He's always,
he's when he comes to leadership break glass.
That's it. In case.
Of war. We have those guys. Yes. They're real. I know you've met some of 'em.
Yeah. We need those guys. They exist. They're terrifying.
They I'm so happy. They're real. Yeah. They're real. Yeah.
And Jocko is my he's he's the archetype. Yeah.
He was here was the reason why he was, he was over Chris and, and uh,
Michael and mark. If you notice in the seal teams, all of our medal of honor,
guys are named Michael, you ever noticed that? No. Oh yeah.
Let's call mark angels. They always get the medal of honor.
You get a mark and a Michael running together and the seal team something bads
<laugh> it's gotta go down. So you always joke about that. But
when the book came out, I was in Iraq.
I remember the lawyers and everybody would, they would write me emails and like,
please don't die. And I was like, well, I'll try not to. Thanks. Jesus Christ.
So I got hurt in Iraq again. And when I got back,
they positioned me out of the seal teams and then they kind of rewrote
that part, put my name in it.
My job was to go around and tell you about your boys and what they did and how
hard they fought. And they died. And that was the greatest job.
It was the hardest job I ever had to do.
Cuz I remember when they pulled me offline as an operator and having really
sitting there telling me, he was like, son,
you're gonna do more for the seal teams and you ever did in combat.
And that was, I, I thought that was kind of an insult. I was like, wait,
what do you mean? <laugh> right. I was like, do I need to work out harder?
Do I need to? He's like, no, this is what you need to do.
So I did that and I traveled around I, and I told you guys,
and then the movie Hollywood came calling. So I got stationed to live there.
I actually sat me down and introduced me to all the directors and we had to find
the fit. And then once Pete and I linked up for the first time,
rest is kind of, you mean Peter Berg?
Yeah. Peter Berg. God, he nailed it, man.
I know you haven't seen it cuz you've seen the director's cut, right? Yeah.
Yeah. But uh, he, he nailed it. That guy's a hell of a director. He,
you know, it just, there was no in that movie, you know,
there's a certain amount of.
And I don't know if it there's any in terms of like the reality of the
experience versus the, the film version of it. But there was no,
um, no gloss to that film.
So the way we I'll talk about when I met Pete for the first time,
so I got pulled up to LA to interview all, all of 'em. I was traveling around,
um, just getting to meet all of everybody. Oliver stone.
I sat down in front of him. I mean, we,
they went through me through the guy I had, I had lunch. Oh wow. Yeah.
It was pretty, I remember meeting him cuz I wanted to, he was, he was a veteran.
Right? Yeah. And um, I love that guy.
The lawyer that I got assigned to, he was great. Alan Schwartz is his name and,
and for those, have you ever seen baseballs? Yes. Okay.
The Schwartz in baseballs. Yeah. It's named after him.
So he's Mel Brooks' attorney. This, this is, this is real. That's crazy.
This is crazy. That was one of the coolest things. Why I got to meet him and,
and I was like, wait a minute. You're the Schwartz? He's like, yo <laugh>. So I,
I got like,
I signed to him and then my literary agent was this guy named ed Victor since
passed. But he was great cuz he was a British guy, tall, skinny.
And he would wear the sweaters with tied around his neck and the white and black
wingtips, us to the nines had that, that awesome accent.
And he would tell me, he's like mark it's darling. I'm the seal in this world,
just in this environment. Just let me take care of this. What you saying? Me?
How dare he? And I just kinda like Roger that.
Cause if you're the resident expert,
something I'll always drop in right beside you.
So I was traveling around and I'd been in LA for a couple days and I was
supposed to get back to the bay and they were like, wait,
there's one more guy who wants to meet you? His name's Peter Burke. And I,
I didn't register in my head.
I couldn't put the name to he's been around forever.
He's like he's down on the set, uh,
filming a movie called Hancock and will Smith.
And I was supposed to get on my plane, but we went late and miss my flight.
He's like just go down there and see him. And I was like, all right.
So we dropped down there and he's, he's sitting in his chair and then, uh,
there there's a train scene. So there was this huge train and will standing.
I got to meet him. It was pretty cool. And Pete walks up Peterburg. He's like,
Hey, let's take a walk. I was like, right. And we sat down on this park bench,
overlooking the water. He's like, this is what I think of this.
This is what I wanna do. And he kind of shot me straight. He's like,
before I say anything else,
I wanna yo you a movie that I just filmed and I want you to watch it so that I
got to go to the theater and watch this movie.
And then the next day it was his attention to detail.
He like focused on the stuff that you would normally miss,
which makes it kind of realistic. And I was like, okay, it's yours. I was like,
no, this, if you screw this up, if you do anything to dishonor,
any of my friends I'll kill you.
<laugh> and he didn't know what to do about that.
And I mean, the look, look on his face.
Cause I shook his hand and I had his hand and I was like, okay, here's the deal?
It's yours. If you want it, if you screw it up, I'll have to, you know, no,
no it's nothing personal for real. And um, right when that happened, I mean,
he took it. We,
we made him go to all of our tra he got the door was open for him cuz it was an
assignment, most everything else, the books and the movies and everything.
And they, they were shut down except for this one.
So when the Navy's got your back and you know the seal teams, man,
that's how that works. So we sent him overseas. He had to go live with,
I mean the guy went through some stuff.
He came back early and didn't tell me about it.
Cuz some of the stuff he saw and I was like, Hey, it's real. Right. It's real.
And he is like, that's all I needed to see to change how I feel. I was like,
okay, well let's do this man. And then it started, oh, so he went.
Overseas mm-hmm <affirmative> and experienced. What did he experience?
They, they in bed, him with a seal platoon. Oh Jesus.
He got to see them guys and how they, I it's a really cool story.
I'll let him tell it because of what he, he got to see and what he got to do.
And some of the guys called me from the deployment and they were like, Hey,
we put Pete through the ringer <laugh> I was like good cause of what he was
stepping into. And um, I mean to this day, we're still best buddies.
I talked to his son yesterday. Like he kind of comes over and we do like,
he teaches my kids some things and I teach his kids some things and it's just,
uh, everywhere. I, I go, I was always taught to make a friend over money. Right.
Cuz those are the, that's the best cash you can have as a friend and um,
getting to live with him and experience that Hollywood lifestyle was,
was amazing. I remember showing up at his house the first day I was like, man,
why does this place look so familiar? He's like O J's house is right.
He lives in Brentwood. <laugh> he's like O J's house is right there. I was like,
oh yeah. Okay. And then it just got crazy from there. First time he took me out.
I mean, those, those are great stories.
Catch new episodes.
The Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify back catalog
JRE videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost all for free.
Spotify is AB absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.